docs: document the SDKs approach to encoding (#2405)
FuelLabs/fuels-ts: apps/docs/src/guide/encoding/encode-and-decode.md

# Encode and Decode

> Encoding is the process of transforming raw data into bytecode as per a set of rules. Decoding is the reverse process, transforming bytecode back to raw data. The SDK provides the `AbiCoder` class to encode and decode data.

Reviewer: I think it's more appropriate to outline how encoding and decoding is specific to our SDK as opposed to discussing what that is in a broad sense, given encoding/decoding isn't unique to our ecosystem. 

```suggestion
In order to interact with the FuelVM,  our types must be encoded via according to the [ABI spec](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/specs/abi/). Subsequently, we must transform this bytecode in order to use it in our SDK. To encode a type, it is first converted to an [`JsonAbiType`](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/specs/abi/argument-encoding/#types). To decode a type, you also need to provide a describing the schema of the type in question. All types generated via our 
[ABI Typegen package](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/fuels-ts/fuels-cli/abi-typegen/#abi-typegen)
 ```

Author: Sounds good, I've made a few [changes](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/pull/2405/commits/afc7691126b4867187408fa2616a6f2bc56b1fb1).

> It has 3 static methods: `encode`, `decode`, and `getCoder`, `encode` and `decode` describe the aforementioned processes, while `getCoder` returns an instance of the internal coder required to serialize the passed type, and is used internally by the `encode` and `decode` methods. All methods expect you to pass the [ABI](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/specs/abi/json-abi-format/) and ABI Argument as function parameters, in order to deduce the specific type coders that will be required to parse the data.

Reviewer 2: I was wondering if maybe more spacing could be beneficial.

```suggestion
It has three static methods:
 - `encode`
 - `decode`
 - `getCoder`

The methods `encode` and `decode` describe the aforementioned processes, while `getCoder` returns an instance of the internal coder required to serialize the passed type. This coder is then used internally by the `encode` and `decode` methods.

All methods expect you to pass the [ABI](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/specs/abi/json-abi-format/) and ABI Argument as function parameters to deduce the specific type coders that will be required to parse the data.
```

Author: https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/pull/2405/commits/afc7691126b4867187408fa2616a6f2bc56b1fb1

Imagine we are working with the following script that returns the sum of two `u32` integers:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/test/fixtures/forc-projects/sum-script/src/main.sw#encode-and-decode-1{rust:line-numbers}

> 

Reviewer 2: I was unable to suggest the shell code block using three backticks, so I did with two to show the idea. You'll need to adjust it.

```suggestion
When you build this script, using:

``shell
forc build
``

```

Author: https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/pull/2405/commits/afc7691126b4867187408fa2616a6f2bc56b1fb1

It will produce the following ABI:

> <<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/encoding/encode-and-decode.test.ts#encode-and-decode-2{ts:line-numbers}

Reviewer 2: Currently, we don't support using a JSON file as a code snippet, correct?

Author: Correct, it is invalid JSON.

Author: TIL ^^ `forc build` does not generate `.jsonc` though, and my main reason for doing it in a snippet is to keep the AVI in sync 🤔

Author: https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/pull/2405/commits/948c714e2aca05653ce58e573b5b972d9d2e35e3

Author: And https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/pull/2405/commits/3d958b4d61985b9d2b4f95983a32eff304342d18

> Now, let's prepare some data to pass to the `main` function to retrieve the combined integer. The function is expecting a `u32` integer and will return one. So here we are going to encode the `u32` to pass it to the function, and receive the same same `u32` as bytes back, that we will need to decode.

Reviewer 2: Nits.

```suggestion
Now, let's prepare some data to pass to the `main` function to retrieve the combined integer. The function expects and returns a `u32` integer. So here, we will encode the `u32` to pass it to the function and receive the same `u32` back, as bytes, that we'll use for decoding.
```

We can do both of these with the `AbiCoder`:

> <<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/encoding/encode-and-decode.test.ts#encode-and-decode-3{ts:line-numbers}

Reviewer 2: This snippet seems quite long, and there is a gap between the text and the code. Perhaps there is too much to cover in one go.

Does it make sense to break it apart into smaller chunks and deliver it in blocks with more assertive/dedicated instructions? Could it make it easier to digest?

There are also variables (such as `factory` and others) that are not obvious to the reader:

```ts
const abi: JsonAbi = factory.abi;
const bin: string = factory.bin;
```

Author: Added the missing factory import. I think the best I could do with splitting is split up the `encode ` and `docode`. However I have resolved the missing import and added some more descriptive comments. Thoughts?

Author: I've split it up into prep, encode and then decode. https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/pull/2405/commits/5b986a462348a2aef46a85b351af9c170e3ece65

> A similar approach can be taken with [Predicates](../predicates/index.md) however you must set the encoded values to the `predicateData` property. [Contracts](../contracts/index.md) require more care and although you can utilise the `scriptData` property, the arguments must be encoded as part of the [contract call script](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/sway/sway-program-types/smart_contracts/#calling-a-smart-contract-from-a-script), therefore it is recommended to use the helper classes provided by the SDK.

Reviewer 2: Nits + What's the recommended helper class?

```suggestion
A similar approach can be taken with [Predicates](../predicates/index.md); however, you must set the encoded values to the `predicateData` property.

[Contracts](../contracts/index.md) require more care. Although you can utilise the `scriptData` property, the arguments must be encoded as part of the [contract call script](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/sway/sway-program-types/smart_contracts/#calling-a-smart-contract-from-a-script). Therefore, it is recommended to use the helper classes provided by the SDK.
```
